---
simd: 'XXXX'
title: Title of SIMD
authors:
  - (fill in with names of authors)
category: Standard
type: Core
status: Draft
created: (fill me in with today's date, YYYY-MM-DD)
feature: (fill in with feature tracking issues once accepted)
supersedes: (optional - fill this in if the SIMD supersedes a previous SIMD)
extends: (optional - fill this in if the SIMD extends the design of a previous
 SIMD)
---

## Summary

A brief summary of what the feature is.

## Motivation

Why are we doing this? What use cases does it support? What is the expected
outcome?

## Alternatives Considered

What alternative designs were considered and what pros/cons does this feature
have relative to them?

## New Terminology

Is there any new terminology introduced with this proposal?

## Detailed Design

Explain the feature as if it was already implemented and you're explaining it
to another Solana core contributor. The generally means:

- Explain the proposed change and how it works
- Where the feature fits in to the runtime, core, or relevant sub-system
- How this feature was/could be implemented
- Interaction with other features
- Edge cases

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD",
"SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this
document are to be interpreted as described in [RFC
2119](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2119.txt) and [RFC
8174](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc8174.txt).

## Impact

How will the implemented proposal impacts dapp developers, validators, and core contributors?

## Security Considerations

What security implications/considerations come with implementing this feature?
Are there any implementation-specific guidance or pitfalls?

## Drawbacks *(Optional)*

Why should we not do this?

## Backwards Compatibility *(Optional)*

Does the feature introduce any breaking changes? All incompatibilities and
consequences should be listed.

## Implicit Function

```
ZeroUpper(x: u64) -> u64 {
  x[32:63] := 0
  return x
}
```

```
ZeroExtend(x: u32) -> u64 {
  y: u64 := 0
  y[0:31] := x
  return y
}
```

```
SignExtend(x: u32) -> u64 {
  y: u64 := 0
  y[0:31] := x

  if x[31] == 1 {
    y[32:63] := 1
  }
  
  return y
}
```

## Instruction Set Table

---

### `ADD32_IMM` - Add 32-Bit Immediate
Opcode: `0x04`

Description: \
Zero upper 32 bits of `dst_reg`, then add `imm` to `dst_reg`.

Input Constraints: \
$\mathtt{dst\_reg} \neq \mathtt{r10}$ \
$\mathtt{off} = 0$

Operation:
```
dst_reg := ZeroUpper(dst_reg) + SignExtend(imm)
```

---
### `ADD64_IMM` - Add 64-Bit Immediate
Opcode: `0x07`

Description: \
Sign extend `imm` to 64 bits, then add this value to `dst_reg`.

Input Constraints: \
$ $

Operation:
```
dst_reg = (uint64_t) ((int64_t) dst_reg + (int32_t) (sign_extend(imm)))
```

---
### `ADD32_REG` - Add 32-Bit Register

---
### `ADD64_REG` - Add 64-Bit Register





Template:
===

---
### `OP_MNEMONIC` - Short Description
Opcode: `0x`

Description: \

Input Constraints: \
$ $

Operation:
```

```